[Music]
the animal kingdom is filled with
impressive horns and tusks
they vary a lot in size and shape but
some stand out for just how huge they
are
the longest horns of any living animal
belong to the asian water buffalo of
india nepal and thailand males carry
enormous backward crescent-shaped horns
that are embellished with deep ridges
they grow to an average length
of close to five feet long and sometimes
grow so large
that they almost touch in 1955
researchers found a bowl that took it
one step further
these particular horns measured nearly
14 feet from tip to tip
so large that they even got the blue
ribbon from the guinness world records
wild water buffalo are formidable
mammals that use their horns to protect
themselves
they're not even afraid to face off with
tigers and lions
being so large you wouldn't think they'd
be fast too
but when frightened water buffalo can
reach speeds of 30 miles per hour
adax are white antelopes that decided to
call the sahara desert their home
over time they developed a striking
white coat that helps them to reflect
the scorching desert
sun the attacks are also known as the
screw horn antelopes
and they earn their nickname well their
horns are long
between three feet and four feet and
twisted
like the thread of a screw they're one
of the few species in the world
where both the buck and doe have horns
of the same
size adax also possesses wide
flat hooves slightly upturned helping
prevent them from sinking into all that
soft desert sand
[Music]
jackson chameleons that's right lizards
surprised were you expecting a cow or
antelope again
not only are they true horns just like
the ones on the addicts
made out of bone and using them for the
same purpose
jousting with other males and pushing
them out of tree tops
those three horns on their head make
this species look a little like a tiny
triceratops
that's why they're also known as the
three horned chameleon
like other chameleons their tongue is
usually one and a half times the
chameleon's body length
that'd be like a six foot person having
a tongue that's nine feet long
though originally native to the
mountains of east africa
the jackson's chameleon can now be found
all over the islands of hawaii
you know a caterpillar is tough looking
when even chickens don't want to take a
nibble
they usually eat anything despite this
prickly caterpillar's
menacing appearance the hickory horned
devil caterpillar
is entirely harmless the caterpillar
molds
four times before turning into its
terrifying final form
a beast covered with black spines that
run down the length of its body
its head is adorned with long orange
horns
tipped with black to top all of this off
it's enormous for a caterpillar
the largest in north america before it
transitions to its adult face
it can reach the size of a hot dog it
resembles a terrifying green dragon
more than an insect surprisingly they're
not poisonous in any way
the spines aren't very sharp and even
feel flexible to the touch
if you're not too scared off by its
appearance
horned guans great hornbills and horned
puppets
all have very impressive headwear that
would make most other birds extremely
jealous
but no bird wears head ornamentation
that looks more like a horn
than the cassowary the cask as it's
called
is made of a sponge-like material and
covered with a thick layer of keratin
that's the same material that human hair
is made from
the end result is a formation on the
head that kind of resembles a helmet
although it may seem quite sturdy and
robust the horn can be squeezed in the
middle fairly easily
but i wouldn't recommend it native to
the tropical forests
of southeast asia and australia
cassowaries can stand over six feet tall
and weigh as much as 130 pounds
while they do have beautiful colors and
look friendly they'll have a mean streak
of corners
rhinoceros beetles get all the attention
with their horn-like projections
that can be found on the male's heads
they're ridiculously strong
with adults of some species able to lift
objects
850 times their weight their use of this
extreme strength is a bit less exciting
though
with most species using it to dig into
leaf litter and soil to escape or hide
their horns help them push all the dirt
and debris out of the way
but the most beautiful and interesting
horn belongs to the rainbow scarab's
male
this species is easily identified by its
metallic appearance
and the large horn that grows out from
its head and curves back over itself
these might even be so amazing that they
rivaled the rhinos they were named after
fancy horns are great for display
purposes but you know that an animal
with 15 sticking out of its face
has some serious defenses like the horn
dinosaur cosmoceratops
which lived approximately 76 million
years ago
in the late cretaceous period it had
horns all over its face
ten spiky horns lined the edge of its
bony frill protecting its vulnerable
neck
there were long sharp horns above each
eye a horn extending from each cheek
and a single blunt horn on its nose a
lot more than its famous cousin
the triceratops that's for sure
the unicorn of the sea a pale colored
porpoise called the narwhal
is found in arctic coastal waters and
rivers
they come from the same sea mammal
family as dolphins and killer whales
but their horn really makes them stand
out this unique horn
or oversized tooth can reach 10 feet
long
the sword-like spiral tusk grows right
out of the narwhals lip
and scientists aren't sure of the tusk's
purpose
some believe it's used to impress
females like having a top hat
or a fancy haircut it might even be to
battle rival males
it looks like it might hurt a little too
females can sometimes grow a small tusk
of their own
but it doesn't ever become as large as
the males
being part of the boxfish family which
includes the infamous puffer fish
the longhorn cowfish is very
recognizable for its long horns
they protrude from the front of its head
making the fish look weirdly similar to
a cow
it's believed to have evolved these to
make it just that little bit more
difficult for predators to swallow
allowing a quick getaway they'll even
grow the horns back if they lose them
too
their unique method of swimming causes
them to look as if they're just hovering
in the water
it might not be the best style though
because cowfish are such slow swimmers
that they're easily caught by hand but
be careful
like the puffer fish when stressed this
species can produce poison in their skin
as well
it's hard to imagine a 200-pound animal
with enormous horns
nimbly climbing up a tree but that's
precisely what the mark are does
as one of the largest species of wild
goat found across western and central
asia
it's their impressive horns that get all
the attention
they grow to about five feet long the
horns spiral
out from the goat's skull like
corkscrews the goats use these to dig
for roots and
other food and remove bark from trees
males will also use their long horns to
win
a female during the mating season by
budding heads with other males that they
encounter
golden eagles have even been reported
trying to catch young markar
only to have the mothers using their
horns to scare away the winged predators
you can find this next creature in the
mountainous regions known as the
european alps
the capra ibex also called the alpine
ibex
has its own imposing set of horns the
male ibex has remarkably strong
curling horns growing to lengths of 40
inches
while the females have shorter and
thinner horns measuring at about 13
inches in length
during mating season the male uses their
large horns to headbutt rivals for
territory
and with such defensive horns predators
like wolves
bears and lynxes have a very clear
warning to get out of the way
sensing danger around them they'll raise
up on their powerful hind legs
while pointing their horns toward the
would-be ibic cedar
when you hear the word horn one animal
should immediately come to mind
and it's a big one the largest of the
rhino family
the white rhino has two distinctive
horns one longer front horn
and a smaller back one the bigger horn
can grow up to 59
inches these amazing horns are made from
a protein called keratin
the same thing that makes scales hair
nails
claws and hooves traveling in groups
or crashes as they prefer to be called
these 5500
pound animals can somehow run up to 25
miles an hour
if you want an idea of what that would
be like imagine
300 bowling balls rolling towards you at
that speed
the seyala first made its presence known
to the world
in may 1992 with researchers and
scientists finding them way
up into the mountains of vietnam and
laos since then
it's only been photographed a handful of
times
little is known about these creatures
that's why they have the nickname of
asian unicorn only because they're such
a rare sight to see
seyala have striking white markings on
their face
but they're more recognized by the two
20-inch parallel horns that shoot up
from their crown
these have razor sharp ends and are
found on both the males and females of
the species
they might look like an antelope or a
deer but they're actually
more closely related to cattle
unicorn fish aren't as magical as the
mythical horse
well that we're aware of anyway these
interesting fish have a frontal horn
almost like a long spike protruding from
their forehead
the horn-like appendage begins growing
between their eyes when they reach about
5 inches in length
and tend to be slightly more prominent
on males biologists are still unsure
what the purpose of the horn is
as it isn't used for defense for that
the unicorn fish
uses its sharp tail spines against other
males and predators
while you might never see the fabled
horse with a horn on its forehead
keep an eye out on your next dive and
you just might see a herd of these
unicorns
cleaning up the area